docs: add adding react components doc (#18651)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/adding-react-components.md

---
title: Adding React Components
---

This guide covers how to add React components to your Gatsby site.

## React components

React components are prebuilt elements or groups of elements that can be used to prevent repeating yourself in your code.

> Components also offer the ability to be customised using "props" (properties). Props can be of any Javascript type, such as boolean, string, object, array or almost anything you can think of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Components also offer the ability to be customized using "props" (properties). Props can be of any Javascript type, such as boolean, string, object, array or almost anything you can think of.
```

For consistency, our [style guide prefers American spelling](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#prefer-us-english) of English words like this 🙂

For example, you could use a component for Buttons on your site. This is because they would likely be used multiple times across pages and would need different labels each time.

## Importing React components

In Gatsby, when using React components, you import and use them just like you would in normal React:

```jsx
import React from "react"
import { Link } from "gatsby"

export default () => (
  <div>
    <Link to="/contact/">Contact</Link>
  </div>
)
```

> 

Reviewer: The issue mentions [adding in 3rd party libraries](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/16288#issue-475710777), perhaps we could also add in an example - after this one about your own component - to importing a 3rd party component library like Bootstrap, React Select, or really anything that could be installed from npm and then used in a Gatsby site.

Reviewer 2: This would be a nice opportunity to explain how to write a component. I have a few links and examples in my Gatsby workshop:
- https://marcysutton.github.io/gatsby-a11y-workshop/slides/29
- https://marcysutton.github.io/gatsby-a11y-workshop/slides/30
- https://marcysutton.github.io/gatsby-a11y-workshop/slides/31

The people who would need the information that's in this doc may not already know how to write a component. Consuming them is an important thing to cover, and this doc does that really well! But filling it in a bit more with React component information would be excellent. It would also provide a nice setup for the Porting from Create React App to Gatsby doc.

Author: That's a good idea. Isn't there already documentation for that on the React site, though? It's it worth making a (not completely, but basically) copy and paste version from their docs?

Reviewer 2: That makes sense -- there is a great doc from Reactjs.org that I've added in a suggestion in the top paragraph.

## Things to watch out for

Since Gatsby uses Server Side Rendering (SSR) to generate your site's pages, the JSX code you write is usually compiled before the browser loads the page. Because of this, certain features are not available at compile time and can cause a build to error.

### Use of browser globals

Some components or code references on "browser globals" such as `window`, `document` or `localStorage`. This object is not available at compile time so can result in a Webpack error when building:

```
WebpackError: ReferenceError: window is not defined
```

> #### Fixing your code

Reviewer: Similar note to section below on line 93, since this content lives in the Porting from CRA to Gatsby guide, and the examples are mostly relevant to Debugging HTML Builds, how about we add these examples to the HTML Builds guide, and then cross reference it here (and then remove this section, opting for shorter notes with links instead)?

The line above with the [WebpackError](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/18651/files#diff-6983458a577ee39b5741ef3ec632559fR39) could link to the Debugging HTML Builds page which serves as the standard for solving issues in regards to builds, and this page can focus mainly on adding react components, and link off to those places with warnings about things to be aware of.

You can use conditionals to check that the browser global is defined in your code:

```js
if (typeof window !== "undefined") {
  // code that references the browser global
  window.alert("Woohoo!")
}
```

You can also drop the code that uses the browser global inside [`componentDidMount`](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#componentdidmount):

```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from "react"

export default () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    // code that references the browser global
    window.alert("Woohoo!")
  })

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Component</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

...or you can use [a `useEffect` hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#useeffect):

```jsx
import React, { Component } from "react"

class MyComponment() extends Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    // code that references the browser global
    window.alert("Woohoo!")
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>Component</p>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

> #### Fixing third-party modules

Reviewer: This section is great, and looks it comes from the [Debugging HTML Builds page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/debugging-html-builds/), rather than copying that content here, it would be nice to add a note on this doc to about this warning and link to that content instead. We could remove this section that's already included in that doc, and instead cross reference, which will help keep the docs up to date as these pages get updated in the future.

Components also offer the ability to be customized using inputs, better known as "props" (properties). Props can be of any JavaScript type, such as Boolean, String, Object, Array or almost anything you can think of.

For example, you could use a component for Buttons on your site. This would enable them to be used multiple times across pages with different labels or actions each time.

## Importing React components

In Gatsby, when using React components, you can import and use them like you would in a React application. Here's an example of the [Gatsby Link](/docs/gatsby-link/) component in action, which brings with it extra functionality for performance:

```jsx
import React from "react"
import { Link } from "gatsby"

export default () => (
  <div>
    <Link to="/contact/">Contact</Link>
  </div>
)
```

### Importing third-party components

> Just like React, Gatsby also supports third-party components and libraries. You can install a third-party component or library via your package manager. We tend to favour and use `npm` and we will reflect this in our examples.

Reviewer 3: i remember we not put npm in code style 

```suggestion
Just like React, Gatsby also supports third-party components and libraries. You can install a third-party component or library via your package manager. We tend to favour and use npm and we will reflect this in our examples.
```

Here's an example of adding a third-party component to your site.

> First, you have to install the component or library's package via a package manager. It's recommended not to mix package managers, so if you use `npm`, don't use another and vice versa.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, you have to install the component or library's package via a package manager. It's recommended not to mix package managers, so if you use npm, don't use another and vice versa.
```

---
title: Adding React Components
---

This guide covers how to add React components to your Gatsby site.

## React components

> React components are prebuilt elements or groups of elements that can be used to prevent repeating yourself in your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React components are prebuilt elements or groups of elements that can be used to split your User Interface (UI) into independent, reusable pieces.
```

> React components are prebuilt elements or groups of elements that can be used to split your User Interface (UI) into independent, reusable pieces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React components are prebuilt elements or groups of elements that can be used to split your User Interface (UI) into independent, reusable pieces. There are multiple types of components you can write: this guide covers functional components. For more in-depth information on writing React components including classes, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html).
```

> Components also offer the ability to be customized using "props" (properties). Props can be of any Javascript type, such as boolean, string, object, array or almost anything you can think of.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Components also offer the ability to be customized using inputs, better known as "props" (properties). Props can be of any JavaScript type, such as Boolean, String, Object, Array or almost anything you can think of.
```

> For example, you could use a component for Buttons on your site. This is because they would likely be used multiple times across pages and would need different labels each time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you could use a component for Buttons on your site. This would enable them to be used multiple times across pages with different labels or actions each time.
```

## Importing React components

> In Gatsby, when using React components, you import and use them just like you would in normal React:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Gatsby, when using React components, you can import and use them like you would in a React application. Here's an example of the [Gatsby Link](/docs/gatsby-link/) component in action, which brings with it extra functionality for performance:
```

```jsx
import React from "react"
import { Link } from "gatsby"

export default () => (
  <div>
    <Link to="/contact/">Contact</Link>
  </div>
)
```

### Importing third-party components

> Just like React, Gatsby also supports third-party components and libraries. You can install a third-party component or library via your package manager (either `yarn` or `npm`).

Reviewer 2: We recommend `npm` in the docs:
```suggestion
Just like React, Gatsby also supports third-party components and libraries. You can install a third-party component or library via your package manager, such as `npm`.
```

> Here's a short example on adding a third-party component to your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of adding a third-party component to your site.
```

First, you have to install the component or library's package via a package manager. It's recommended not to mix package managers (don't use npm and yarn at the same time).

```shell
// Install material-ui with npm
npm install @material-ui/core

> // Or with yarn

Reviewer 2: Same as above -- we recommend `npm` and use it consistently in the docs, so the yarn instructions should be removed.

yarn add @material-ui/core
```

> After, import and use it in your page's source:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you've installed a package, import and use it in your page's source:
```

```jsx:title=my-page.jsx
import React from "react"

// import my fancy third-party component
import Button from "@material-ui/core/Button"

export default () => (
  <div>
    <p>This is my super awesome page made with Gatsby!</p>

    {/* use my fancy third-party component */}
    <Button>Fancy button!</Button>
  </div>
)
```

## Things to watch out for

> Since Gatsby uses Server Side Rendering (SSR) to generate your site's pages, the JSX code you write is usually compiled before the browser loads the page. Because of this, certain features are not available at compile time and can cause a build to error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Gatsby uses Server-Side Rendering (SSR) to generate your site's pages, the JSX code you write is usually compiled before the browser loads the page. Because of this, certain features are not available at compile time and can cause a build error.
```

### Use of browser globals

> Some components or code references on "browser globals" such as `window`, `document` or `localStorage`. This object is not available at compile time so can result in a Webpack error when building:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some components or code reference browser globals such as `window`, `document` or `localStorage`. These objects are not available at [build](/docs/glossary#build) time and can result in a webpack error when compiling:
```

```
WebpackError: ReferenceError: window is not defined
```

> There's a great section on fixing these issues on the [Porting from Create React App](/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby#server-side-rendering-and-browser-apis) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about solutions for supporting SSR and client-side libraries, check out the related section on the [Porting from Create React App](/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby#server-side-rendering-and-browser-apis) page.
```

#### Fixing third-party modules

Some packages expect `window` or another browser global to be defined. These packages will have to be patched.

You can learn how to patch these packages on the [Debugging HTML Builds](docs/debugging-html-builds/#fixing-third-party-modules) page.

### Components without server-side rendering

> Server-side rendering means pages and content are built out by the server, and then sent to a browser ready to go. It’s like your pages are constructed before even being sent to the user. Gatsby is server-side rendered at build time, meaning that the code that gets to your browser has already been run to build pages and content, but this doesn’t mean you can’t still have dynamic pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server-side rendering means pages and content are built out by the Node.js server and then sent to a browser ready to go. It’s like your pages are constructed before even being sent to the user. Gatsby is server-side rendered at build time, meaning that the code that gets to your browser has already been run to build pages and content, but this doesn’t mean you can’t still have dynamic pages.
```
